[GENERAL]

@Norway

- Useful Language Bits:
:Thank you - Tusen takk
:Cheers - Skål
:How are you? - Hvordan går det?
:North - nord
:South - sør
:West - vest
:East - øst

-Vowels: Vowels are pronounced very differently in Norwegian as opposed to English:
:A pronounced "ah" as in bar
:E pronounced "eh" as in heck
:I pronounced "e" as in here or "i" as in hill
:O pronounced "oo" as in moon and in other times, "aw" as in law
:U pronounced "ou" as in soup
:Y pronounced "ew" as in few (rounded lips)
:Æ pronounced "a" as in bag
:Ø pronounced "er" as in "her" without the R sound
:Å pronounced "aw" as in "law"
:the consonant J and the combination GJ as Y in (young). "jobb" (work) would be pronounced "yobb".

@Finland

- Useful expressions:
:Hello = Terve
:Hi = Moi or Hei
:Hitchhiking = Liftaaminen
:To hitchhike = Liftata
:A ride = Kyyti
:Thank you very much = Kiitos paljon
:Where are you driving to? = Minne ajat?
:I don't speak Finnish = En puhu suomea

[LIVING]

@Norway

- w e a t h e r
- q:"Maybe taking a warm tent as I did was the best idea ever, the experience of camping 
in the woods in those mountains was very nice."
- The Hurtigruten is a daily shipping service on Norway's coast, it stops in most towns 
along the way, starting in Bergen and going all the way up to Kirkenes on the Russian border. 
In many towns it stops for 3 or 4 hours and while it's in port, you can go onboard as a visitor 
for free. Just have your ID handy. Many ships have saunas and some have hot tubs that you can use 
for free.

[RESOURCES]

@Norway

-  в USE IT на Møllergata 3, в самому центрі, ви можете знайти безкоштовні камери схову, 
безкоштовний Wi-Fi, безкоштовну каву і презервативи.
- Місця для кемпінгу: Ekeberg park і Østmarka park

@Denmark

- (Copenhagen) dumpster diving - E20, highway exit 59, Fredericia S (First highway exit on Jutland). 
You can find two supermarkets ALDI and REMA 1000, where to dumpster dive in + a Statoil, where to 
wash everything. And small forest/bushes, where to stay for the night.

[HITCHHIKE]

@Norway

- Vehicles with Norwegian green license plates do not have rear seats. Except some vans.

- distances(2 dudes):
:Stavanger - Mandal (near Kristiansand) - 1 day
:Mandal - Oslo - 1 day
:Oslo - Trondheim - 1 day
:Trondheim - Mor e Rana - 1 day
:Mo i Rana - Karlsøya - 1 day
:Karlsøya to Tampere, Finland - 2 days or 1 day and 1 night
- distances(by car):
:Oslo - Trondheim: ca. 7 hours
:Oslo - Bergen : ca. 7 hours
:Oslo - Kristiandsand: ca. 4 hours
:Oslo - Stavanger: ca. 7 hours
:Oslo - Tromsø: ca. 22 hours
:Stavanger - Kristiandsand: ca. 3 hours
:Stavanger- Bergen: ca. 3,5 hours (2 ferries)
:Trondheim - Bergen: 10 hours
:Trondheim - Tromsø: 15 hours
:Most southern point of Norway(Lindesnes) - northern point (Nordkapp): ca. 1 day, 8 hours.

@Denmark

- The best spot to hitchhike to Sweden is probably at Kastrup Airport(Copenhagen). Take the 
metro to the station "Lufthavnen / Copenhagen Airport", leave the terminal on the other side 
of the metro exit to the large parking lot and then go to the roundabout at the end, next to 
McDonalds/Netto/Statoil.

@Finland

- illegal to hitchhike directly on motorways (moottoritie) and some two-land expressways 
roads (moottoriliikennetie) -- green signs. can hitch there from on-ramps (which often have 
bus stops that drivers will stop at) and petrol stations.
- The cars cannot stop in crossing areas, and some drivers who disobeyed this rule and picked 
up hitchhikers have been fined.
- In the south avoid motorways for smaller local roads. there is less traffic but more room for 
cars to stop. drivers will stop only where they feel it is safe, try to hike at bus stops.
- alternative point:
:You can hitch anywhere.
:During the summer you can hitch 24/7.
:People are not that scared (half of the drivers are women).
:People are very glad to give a ride because they don't see hitchhikers that often.
- Hitchhiking seems to get easier the more North you go in Finland
- the highways are better in the South and there is more traffic


[FERRIES]

@Norway

- https://www.norled.no/en/maps-and-schedules/ferry/hordaland/
- Hitch on the side where the cars drive into the ferry because in many places it's hard to 
hitch on the other side. 
- You can maybe knock on people's windows when they wait for the ferry, especially if they 
come early and have to wait long, it's easy to talk to them.
- You can maybe try to hitch into cars that have already paid for the ferry but on almost all 
car ferries, and definitely all the short distance ones, you pay extra for each passenger.
- When the ferry arrives and the ticket sellers (can recognize them easily) are busy making 
tickets to cars just enter the ferry and nobody will tell you anything, the guys at the entrance 
of the boat are not supposed to check tickets just to tell cars where to go so they won't stop 
you nor anything, just think that you have already paid before.
- On hitchhiking short distance ferries that are usually paid by the amount of people in 
the car, especially around the fjords of Bergen and the Western coast of Norway: When your 
driver enters a ferry, be sure he or she is not the first or second car in line. As soon 
as the person who collects the money from the cars, is with the first or second driver, 
get out of the car, go to the sundeck - or whereever else in the ferry - and back in the 
car when the boat is on the other side. Nobody will check on you during the ride or when 
the cars leave the ferry. Thus I would highly recommend you to be in a car while boarding 
a ferry. If you are not, just ask a few drivers! If you still cannot find a car, there's 
also a few possibilities to sneak if you time it right and you are not seen by the officials.
